The working directory is a Jekyll site based on the al-folio template. It is my personal site, highlighting my open source projects, blog posts, contact info, and various misadventures. We are aiming for a kind of medieval-cyberpunk retro-futurist aesthetic, cathode ray tube meets illuminated manuscript meets VALIS. I would like some help making adjustments to the website, but as we go I would like us to be taking care to document our changes, noting any errors we encounter and making notes in appropriate logs for future agents when relevant, and continually reflecting on the structure of our site as we go. You are free to use the multitude of tools available to you to read, write, and search through files in the working directory. Any substantial changes or updates made to the site should be summarized at change_;log_for_robots.md. Feel free to leave notes there, just don't be too verbose. CUSTOMIZE.md contains a (now partially outdated) log otulining the sites basic structure and giving an outline on customization. This site is already heavily customized, but uses the core of al-folio. Feel free to modify CUSTOMIZE.md, but please be very careful with that one, it is a critical reference. Our goal is to assist future agents in the same work you are undertaking. 
You can run ```bundle exec jekyll serve --livereload --port 4002``` to run the site locally, and you can view it at http://localhost:4002. You can also use the `jekyll build` command to build the site, which will output the static files to the `_site` directory. Feel free to ask me for screenshots of the local site for reference
Now, let's do some research:
1: I want you to develop a good understanding of Jekyll, the basis of this site. I have created a file called in the working directory called jekyll_guide_for_robots.md, which you use as a reference, and save information you believe to be pertinent to future agents you find to be lacking. You can read more about the site here: https://jekyllrb.com/. I am using endeavorOS/arch linux, look into the tools such as RubyGems and bundle used to run jekyll on arch.I am deploying with GitHub pages. You can read more about that here: https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll. Gemfile contains a list of the RubyGems required to build the site. Take a moment to reflect on Jekyll and GitHub pages, on the jekyll_guide_for_robots.md guide available, and whether or not if there are any updates needed. If so, remember that, and tell me what you propose after completing the rest of your tasks. As we continue on in our conversation, please feel free to suggest adding any discoveries we make about Jekyll/GitHub pages/RubyGems/Bundle usage you feel are pertinent.
2: Study the structure and content of the site. Try to get a good high level overview of what files are responsible for what features of the site. If needed, propose changes to CUSTOMIZE.md which more accurately describe the structure of the site. If you find any errors in CUSTOMIZE.md, please note them in change_log_for_robots.md and summarize them for me
3: take a moment to reflect on the overall vibe of the site. What is the status of project pages? What seems like it needs updating? What styles seem inconsistent? Pay special attention to prominent, recent content. What are some obvious improvements we could make to user experience? Save these reflections to robot_reflections.md and summarize for me.
4: As we go along, if you think there would be a benefit to adding some additional places for agents to keep change logs and journals to enhance continuity, please let me know :)
Let's get to it!
