---
layout: post
title: "The Garden"
author: "Lucy M."
date: 2025-10-16
description: "Notes from the Outside"
permalink: /eigenlucy/garden/
---
As a teenager, I periodically lived on an anarchist intentional community hidden in the Smokey Mountains of Tennessee. The three nearest towns were called "Carthage", "Rome", and "Defeated". There were miles and miles of dairy farms in every direction. I slept in a school bus, seats stripped, insulated with spray foam, heated by a wood fire stove. I would wake up in the morning and see the most gorgeous beams of light coming in through the poorly painted windows, rainbows swirling in the smoke filled air. We subsisted on dumpster dived pasta and the meager crops we could grow. One summer spent weeks and weeks fiddling with the faltering solar system. The joy I felt when I finally restored power was some of the purest I've ever felt. I was non stranger to unconventional housing situations..

I spent a large portion of my adolescence and teens heavily using drugs, mostly in the company of even more drug addled adults. I would disappear for days lazing around their houses, driving them about in exchange from drugs and companionship. I worked at a game store, and I had a number of adult friends with severe enough autism to prevent them from driving. I'd skip school to take them to appointments, but really just because I wanted to be around someone. I had maybe 40% attendance throughout highschool (we had no attendance policy if you were passing, and I was always quite intelligent and independently studying). I burned many bridges with my own peers between my chronic absence and bouts of drug induced mania/psychosis. I must have been 14 when it really started getting bad. I couldn't tell you exactly why. The cliche answer would revolve around a mix of a fairly abusive early childhood, growing up in a fundementalist evangelical church-school, conversion therapy, getting whisked back to church school after finally escaping the church due to letting a crush slip (and being repeatedly given black eyes), adverse childhood experiences, a family history of drugb abuse. That's what a social worker would say. I honestly couldn't tell you, most of my teens are, from my perspective, a haze of drugs, suspiciously older friends and boyfriends, near death experiences, and occasional breakthroughs. It started innocently enough, experimenting with prescriptions of Xanax and dextroamphetamine. It quickly progressed to stealing all the pain killers I could find in any house I could get access to. By 15 I had things down to a science. Every morning I would shoplift two 24oz beers on the way to school and chug them in the parking lot. I'd sleep through first and second peroid, and then move to either railing amphetamines or taking oxys depending on my mood. I had sources now. I bought from my boyfriends childhood best friend. Her boyfriend, equally nightmarish, once pulled a gun on me. She was always bruised up. Once he pushed me to take a hit from a crack pipe, telling me it was dabs and he'd just left his rig at home. I made it about 30 feet out of the parking lot before I had to pull over with a pounding headache and the feeling like someone had shoved tinfoil into my skull through my ears. I think I was 16 the first time I saw someone auto-ahsphyxiate. It was the most horrifying thing I have ever witnessed, to this day. I remember the house vividly, but I remember almost nothing about the two couples that owned it (a brother and sister, plus their spouses, and a baby; i remember them chastising one another to blow smoke away from him between showing off their black metal vocalizations). The gurgling sounds they made, the flashes of fear in their eyes as their body shut down.

A few months later, on Christmas eve in my grandmother's prayer room, I experienced my own first overdose (of four, or maybe five). I can't explain the feeling. I was stupid. I took percs instead of my preferred oxys, and didn't give them enough time before re-dosing. I first knew something was wrong when I realized I was losing time. Very suddenly, my body stopped responding to commands. I willed my legs to move, but nothing replied. My lips felt tingly, then numb, Slowly the paralysis moved to my chest. I begged God to let me survive, I struggled to put myself on my side against a wall so I could hopefully clear the vomit rising in my throat before I choked on it. The acid burned by throat. I woke up and I knew that what I had just survived had been a true miracle. I thanked god profusely, I promised him I would keep my word. I was high again within a gew hours. I remember getting stabbed and beaten up so badly I was left with a concussion so bad I couldn't stand to see light. I remember a constant stream of adults all to willing to try to play the role of my family, letting me stay at their houses, buying me drugs to keep me out of the throws of nicotine/alcohol withdrawal. I don't think I ever stopped reeking of some combination of cigs, weed, and alcohol. I briefly sobered up,m at least relatibvely, in the sense that I stopped using opiates. The wave of dysphoria was overwhelming. I picked at each surfacing hair on my face until I bled, chronically covered in disgusting facial infections and scabs. At 17, having burnt though much of my grey matter and straining under the weight of my situation, I started to truly lose my mind. Like really, truly lose my mind. It started slow. An impending sense of dread. My boyfriend at the time was quite abusive (the relationship ended with a restraining order after he stole all my money and beat me up quite badly). I remember laying in bed one day so exasperated after an awful fight and suddenly my vision had changed.

It was like some bizarre filter had been applied, I still can't explain it. I suddenly had vivid visual hallucinations. My internal monologue leaked out of me until I could not tell what was inside and what was outside anymore. I heard voices speaking to me, crying, screaming. I saw the sky turn red, I saw animals speak, I saw statues move, I hid from snipers surely hidden atop the surrounding rooftops, I talked to a God living inside of my stomach. I went catatonic, for a while, I got hospitalized after having a public breakdown culminating in screaming at random people in a Freddy's Burgers. I was diagnosed with adolescent schizophrenia. I was given medication after medication after medication. Thankfully, this actually succeed in keeping me sober,partially because I couldn't function well enough to sustain the constant intake I'd managed before, and partially because the cocktail of anti-psychotics and mood stabilizers forms a kind of wall around my blood brain barrier. After around 2 years of persistent psychosis, and with the help of a surrealy patient and kind partner with whom I lived through this period, I recovered. Slowly. Agonizingly. The return to lucidity was not a gradual return to myself. As far I was concerned, there was no Me. That had always been the issue, really. I wasn't really sure what to go back to afterwards, I only had a crater in the place my adolescence should have been.
