---
layout: post
title: An Introduction to Gamma Spectroscopy
date: 2026-01-06 09:00:00-0400
description: Gamma Spec Theory, Modeling, and PCB Design. Article for Hardware Thrashers of X
tags: projects
categories: featured
related_posts: false
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
---

This is a draft of my article on Gamma Spectroscopy for <a href="https://hardwarethrashersofx.com">a zine</a> called Hardware Thrashers of X.

## Intro

Every second, thousands of high energy particles, sheered off of atoms by radioactive decay, collide with your body. Most pass through harmlessly. But each carries a signature: its energy fingerprints the exact isotope that spawned it—potassium-40 from your breakfast banana, cesium-137 from reactor fuel, tellurium from distant supernovae.

For decades, reading these fingerprints required photomultiplier tubes, cryogenic cooling, and equipment costing tens of thousands of dollars. Not anymore. Gamma spectroscopy has become suprisingly cheap. With about $100 in parts and a Saturday afternoon, you can build a device that identifies isotopes by their gamma signatures.

This article is your field guide: we'll cover what gamma spectroscopy can do, how the physics works, the signal processing that extracts clean spectra from messy detector data, and walk through a low-cost, high-performance gamma spectrscopy system of my own design.

## I don't live in Chernobyl, why should I care

Gamma spectroscopy isn't just for detecting nuclear accidents or uranium ore: gamma particles are EVERYWHERE. There is enough potassium-40 in the average banana to produce about 15 gamma particles per second.

A given gamma-emitting radioactive isotope will produce photons of different energy levels, each emission random, but with a consistent probability distribution. These spectra are like atomic fingerprints which we can use to detect and identify gamma-emitting particles.

Gamma spectroscopy is used to monitor star formation millions of light years away, test food (bioaccumulation of gamma-emitting particles), analyze soil ecology (distributions of isotopes correlated with various geological, seismic, and ecological trends) and map geological features (attenuation of gamma particles by heavy deposits).

High energy spectrum data can shed light on atomic processes happening all around us—in the dirt below and in the distant stars above.

## How gamma spectroscopy works

Most people are familiar with the visible light spectrum: any light source can be characterized as a spectrum describing the relative intensity of each frequency. The electromagnetic spectrum extends to lower frequencies, like the IR used for thermal cameras, and to higher frequencies through UV. But that's not where the EM spectrum stops.

At the very high frequency end (>10^19 Hz) there are gamma ray photons. Particles of this intensity are generated by atomic processes associated with radioactive decay of unstable nuclei. The energy level (measured in kilo- or mega-electron-volts) of a given particle is a function of the atomic structure of the nucleus which ejected it.
